April 13. We're continuing the conversation with
Mr. Evans. Yesterday, in error, I said it was the
11th of April and it was the 12th. This is Tuesday
the 13th, and Mr. Evans is discussing Dean Kyle.
When you were a student, did Dean Kyle have a lot of
influence on the campus?
Now, the football games were played on a field
named Kyle Field. When you were a student, were
there stands for the football stadium? Were there
already some bleachers built?
And there by the railroad track, how often did the
trains... How often did the trains go through? Was
it pretty often or once a day or what?
And y'all rode the train everywhere. When you were
going to go back home, did you go through Houston,
San Antonio, but from College Station, which
direction did you go to get the train to?
Oh, to Hempstead, and then catch the San Antonio.
And did your family meet you in San Antonio? San
Antonio, or did
you... I see.
To Pearsall. And you said your father was growing
onions at that time?
$8,000 for a crop. And these were, you said, yellow
Bermudas? Was that a new variety of onion then?
Did you have brothers and sisters?
Two brothers? One sister? Did they go to college?
You're the only younger brother. Where did he go?
To A&M. And did he major in agriculture also? Dairy
husband. Ah. And where did he live after he
graduated? In Brenham. In Brenham.
Let's see. How often did you have a date when you
were a student?
Didn't have any many dates?
When y'all had a dance, was it held in Sabisa? You
bet. Did y'all have the military ball? Did y'all
have the, did you have a senior dance? What were the
names, what kinds of dances, did they have any
names? Was the cotton ball held then? That would be
a big one later. And the ring dance?
Now, the faculty all lived on the campus? And did
you have, did you, were the faculty members all
good to students? Let's
see. And you said you went to class regularly. Did
you get sick ever while you were at A&M? Well, if you
had, you would have remembered, I bet. Let's see.
Do you remember when you heard that the armistice
had been signed?
Where were you? Where? You were in the dormitory?
How did y'all learn about it? In the newspaper or
telegraph? And what did y'all do to celebrate?
Because I assume that y'all expected that you'd be
sent over to France if the war had not ended.
Now, you were in an infantry outfit. B-1? Did y'all
have a nickname?
You weren't the bad guys or tough guys or big
bombers or anything like that? Did
many of your friends smoke then?
Did you smoke? And if they did smoke, did they roll
their own cigarettes? Bull Durham? Prince
Albert? What about snuff or chewing tobacco?
Did some of the students dip snuff?
Did anybody try to keep beer or whiskey in their
room? And
let's see. That was prohibition, so it wasn't
legal to drink. Was there a bootlegger? Anywhere
near the campus?
Did y'all have midnight yell practice then before
the game? And silver taps?
And muster? Where was muster held?
Was it held on the steps of the YMCA?
Your final review when you were a senior? Did your
parents come for commencement and final review?
But
you gave, oh, you weren't in the military as a
senior, but you gave the, you told me yesterday,
you gave the valedictory address, what did you
wear, did you have a special new suit to wear?
When you were getting ready to leave the campus as a
graduate, did you feel that you, that A&M had
prepared you well to be out in the business world?
You already had, who helped you get that job? And
that was with the state 4-H? So, did A&M, did the
people at A&M help graduates to get jobs?
Did you feel that A&M had prepared you well for that
first job?
What is Aggie spirit?
Spirit you get after you're there four years. Do
you think that that spirit has been consistent
down through the years? Yes.
And what, what are the things that make Aggies
proud? What
effect has A&M had on your life?
Yes, sir.
You've been, you've been among the most, if not the
most generous person ever. So, you must have
always been proud.
Let's see, did Aggie rings in those days, did
everybody wear an Aggie ring right after they
graduated? Yes.
You just happened to have one on today. There you
go, there you go. And do you remember what it cost,
$12? Because now I think it's about $300, $12. Did
you have the money or did you need to borrow it?
Did you all have a, a bonfire then before the Texas
football game? Do you remember where it was,
where, where it was brought? Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes.
Let's see, when you were a student, were there any
Jewish students at A&M then? Were there any
Mexican students?
And among you and your friends, did it matter that
somebody was rich or poor? Not a bit in the world. I
always thought the only thing that mattered was
were they an Aggie or not. Yes, that's right. Yes,
that's right. That's right.
let's see, did y'all have to polish Sully, the
statue of Lawrence Sullivan Ross? Did y'all
polish it in those?
Let's see, was Prexy's Moon up there? Mr. Rudder
used to talk about shooting that light out that was
on top of the academic building. And he said that
when he was a student, they called it Prexy's Moon
and that they would shoot at it.
Let's see, I forgot to ask about Jack Williams,
President Williams. You worked with him. What was
your evaluation of him? Fine. I've always thought
that nobody but Earl Rudder could have done what he
did and nobody but Jack Williams could have done
what he did immediately after. That it was the two
of them. Do you agree with that? The two of them did
what needed to be done and laid the foundation for
A&M as it is today.
What do you remember most about Dr. Williams?
Very likable.
I remember a good sense of humor.
I worked very closely with Dr. Williams. And then
with Mr. Rudder, I was the secretary... I was the
secretary of the Aspirations Committee and wrote
that report for the faculty that recommended
women, volunteer corps, racial integration, and
higher admission requirements.
Yes. Let's see.
Well then, I'm about through. The last question I
wanted to ask, what feelings do you have in your
heart today about A&M? Very good. Yes, sir. If
you were the emperor or the king of tech, of
politics, and you could do anything for A&M that
you wanted to do, what would you, are there any
changes you'd make? What would you do? You'd move
the railroad, anything else?
All right. And the library, what, what do you hope
the library will become? Well, it's becoming...
becoming a good one it certainly is it
and I'm glad it's in the middle of the campus and I'm
glad that it is growing and it's doing that thanks
to people like you it
certainly is that's about all that I can think of to
chat with you about let me thank you so much not only
for myself but for everybody that cares about A&M
for what you have meant to that school and will mean
to A&M forever we are deeply and indebted to you and
deeply grateful to you for your generosity thank
you